It's very competitive. Like you if you
want to buy a great dinosaur fossil
today, you can't just, you know, go down
a promenade of galleries and you know,
you can walk in and say, "Oh, I'd like
to buy a T-Rex. Um could you show me
what's a, you know, behind the curtain?"
Uh that doesn't exist. I mean if you if
you want to buy an amazing dinosaur
fossil, um you know, you you're looking
at having to kind of pre-buy it, uh
pre-acquire it prior to prepping. So,
what we do with clients, for example, is
uh a client recently I sold an amazing
complete skeleton. Uh it's either a
Marshosaurus or it's a completely
unknown new species uh to a private
collector who wanted to have it go on
public display. Um so, it's being loaned
to a uh the Culture Trust Museum in the
UK.
Um and it's kind of something that this
private collector wants to be studied
and he wants it to be kind of made
available to science and I don't know if
his plan at some point will be to donate
it or to what his plans are, but he's a
very kind of philanthropic person. But,
in that scenario, what we had to do was
I met the client years ago. We agreed on
the strategy, which was to buy an
amazing complete skeleton. Uh and uh
then I consistently sent the client kind
of propositions of uh specimens as they
were being discovered and I said,
"Listen,
uh this has just been found. This is
what's been found so far. Um this is how
much the price is to the landowner. This
is how much I I I envision it will cost
to prep. You need to pre-buy this if you
want this specimen because by the time
this is acquired and prepped and
complete, I mean, you will We're
competing against the kind of sovereign
wealth fund or kind of petrodollar uh
states, uh you know, the tech, you know,
the other kind of
um you know, the it's just be much more
difficult. Sotheby's, Christie's will
never be able to get a price and they
might not be able to acquire it. Um so,
that's what people have to do uh to buy
really great dinosaur fossils, usually.
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the All Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal. Joe,
when you were a kid [music] or do your
children now, are they into dinosaurs?
Did you go through a dinosaur phase?
>> I loved dinosaurs as a kid. My kids are
of course into dinosaurs. They're really
into not only dinosaurs, but telling me
which prehistoric animals aren't
dinosaurs. So I love Wait, does this
come up a lot in conversation? Yeah,
because I'm a troll to them. So I'll be
like, "What's your favorite So I'll be
like No, but I'll say things like,
"What's your favorite dinosaur? Mine is
the Tyrannodactyl." And then my daughter
rolls her eyes like, "Dad, Tyrannodactyl
is not technically a dinosaur."
>> Wait, is that true? I did not know that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Wait, explain.
It's something I don't understand it.
Okay.
>> I apparently It's like a It's just a
It's not technically a dinosaur. It's a
prehistoric animal of some different
nature that is technically not a Look it
up.
>> All right, well, learn something new
every day. I'm kind of
You know what? I'm I'm going to sound
like a crank here. I'm not a flat
earther, but I'm like sort of I'm
skeptical of dinosaurs. Um I'm sure they
existed and I know we have fossil
records of them, but here's what I don't
get, okay? Mhm. And I know this isn't
technically the topic, but I'm just So
it's like, okay, we had all these
animals and they're really crazy
looking, these big beasts and they sort
of look like dragons in some cases or
lizards or gigantic. And then they all
went extinct for some reason prior
meteor or something. And then evolution
started again, we got a new set and the
new animals don't look anything like the
dinosaurs by and large. That's not true.
Chickens look like little dinosaurs.
Come on. I have No, they don't. I'm
sorry, they don't. They don't. They
don't. They don't. I've seen what I I've
seen Jurassic Park. I've been to the
museum. I love looking at the fossil
records. I know what chickens look like.
>> No, chickens have a total reptilian
vibe. You can see it. I disagree. All
right.
Okay, so this podcast is going to be
>> Rex? Like there's nothing that looks
like a Tyrannosaurus. There's nothing
that looks like a Brontosaurus. Strong
disagree. A lot of birds look like
T-Rexes. Okay.
>> Oh, this is the other thing that they'll
go they were birds and they actually had
feathers. That's certainly not how
they're depicted in like a lot of Well,
when you were growing up,
>> of birds look like T-Rexes? What?
>> Yes. No, they don't.
>> No, they don't. Okay.
This could be 60 minutes of Joe and I
arguing.
>> A bird looks like a T-Rex? What?
>> It does. Come on, Joe.
>> to look at more birds, Joe. That's your
problem. Um okay, rather than than us
keep going with this.
Uh we're going to talk about a market,
an interesting market, a market that
unusually for nowadays is actually going
up and is at records and that is the
fossil market, the dinosaur fossil
market. Okay, now this I'm very
interested. I believe that
>> Now I have your attention.
>> that fossils exist.
>> Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm glad we established that.
>> like you know, I
I actually was at a dinner once and I
met someone who was a uh commercial
fossil uh pursuer, hunter, collector,
whatever. Sounds like they're they're
worth quite a bit of money or they can
be.
>> Yeah. But I don't but I don't know
anything about it. Every once in a while
you see these headlines um like, you
know, a new set of fossils or new set of
bones sort sold for a record price. So
the one that um jumps out at me because
it has a finance angle is Ken Griffin
buying a Stegosaurus skeleton for I
think something like $45 million
a couple of years back. I think that was
the most expensive fossil ever sold. But
anecdotally, some of the things I've
been reading are saying that fossils are
becoming more of a thing. You know, once
you get to a certain level of wealth, I
guess you get into art or you get into
antiquities or nowadays maybe you get
into dinosaur bones. Um there's a one of
those really fancy South Beach hotels.
They have uh a a full I forget which
dino a big dinosaur thing in their lobby
and I think they even like gold-plated
or something. It looks absolutely like
Wait, is that a real fossil that's been
gold-plated?
>> like ostentatiously Miami or something
like that. Yeah.
>> Oh, wow. Okay.
>> So, I'm very Yeah, if I had a lot of
money and I was done collecting art, I
was done collecting rare books, maybe
I'd move on to dinosaurs. I should just
say this this podcast is not just of
interest to people that have millions of
dollars to spend on dinosaur fossils. It
is also an interesting market structure
question and sourcing um
scenario, I guess, because as you say,
there are commercial dinosaur hunters
out there, but there are also a lot of
regulations around what you can and
cannot sell. There are also a lot of,
you know, ethical questions that come
up. Should these be in museums or should
they be gold-plated in a Miami lobby
somewhere? You know what else is
something interesting? I just looked on
the terminal and right now dinosaur
future uh fossils on backwardation.
What?
>> No, I made I I made that completely
There's no dinosaur futures. There
certainly not a futures curve. I made
that up completely. Oh my god, I was
actually really excited for a second.
>> about that. That's That's just pure
fabrication.
>> We should We should request [laughter]
it. Um okay. All right, without further
ado, I am pleased to say we do in fact
have the perfect guest. We're going to
be speaking with Solomon Aaron. He's a
director at David Aaron, which is a
London-based antiquities, Islamic art,
and dinosaur fossil gallery. So, someone
who actually buys and sells fossils for
a living. So, Sal, thank you so much for
coming on All Thoughts.
>> My pleasure. It's lovely to be with you
both and to have this conversation. So,
maybe just to situate ourselves, is the
fossil market similar to
the art market or the antiquities
market? Is it different in in some way?
Like give us some comparatives as we
think through dinosaur fossils as an
asset class.
The dinosaur fossil market is starting
to resemble other areas of the art
market, but it's still quite a distance
from that point. The principal reason
being that it's a very underdeveloped
recent
recently
growing and attracting interest market.
It's not it's not
it doesn't have the depth of kind of
kind of research market market parallels
pricing comps
that the other areas of the art market
does and all of the rules relating to
how you deal in dinosaur fossils are
still being hammered out
kind of
which we can delve into kind of
condition
authenticity attribution provenance
all of these things are still developing
and so
it's true that the market has been
booming over the past 10 years
but I think that's changing in a way as
the market slightly matures
hopefully there's going to be a kind of
a flight to quality and much more
differentiation between kind of the
great dinosaur fossils that deserve
and are finally getting there you know
the recognition
and others which shouldn't be so it's I
don't know if that in many ways kind of
answers your question. Yeah that's
that's a great place to start. So when
we think about the broad universe of
let's just start with the universe of
fossils rather than collected fossils.
Do we have a sense of like how many are
in
museums private collections etc and how
much is still in the ground yet to be
found?
So I can't accurately answer that
question because I don't think anybody
really really knows what's still left to
be discovered. I imagine that
you know we're kind of at the tip of the
iceberg and
I would argue yeah definitely
the the issue with kind of why more
isn't discovered is it's extremely time
uh, uh,
and kind of labor intensive to discover
a dinosaur. You know, you need to be
able to excavate at a certain time of
the year. Uh, it requires a lot of
manpower. It's, uh, a financial risk
because, you know, there are dinosaur
explorers that will go, uh, you know, a
whole dig season looking for something
and come up with nothing.
Um, and
as a result, you know,
uh, what's happened is as the market has
exploded over the past 10 years, it's
becoming much more financially
financially feasible for people to kind
of, uh, look for dinosaurs and to,
uh, you know, bring things to the
market. So, that kind of the rising
prices are hugely increasing the supply
of dinosaur fossils because it may have
been in the past if someone had
discovered kind of
elements of a of a particular species
or, uh, or a specimen, they'd say,
"Okay,
uh, based on the numbers, this isn't
worth me spending the rest of my dig
season trying to uncover the rest of
this."
Um,
but as the numbers go up, it all becomes
more feasible. Yeah. So, on this note,
what's a walk us through a sort of
canonical example, I guess, of a
dinosaur fossil being discovered? Like,
who actually funds this, um, expedition?
Who goes out and tries to find it? And
then what happens once they do? So, the
rules relating to to how and where you
find a dinosaur fossil uh, vary
dependent on country. Okay. Uh, we only
deal in American dinosaur fossils
because the rules are very clear. If you
find a dino- dinosaur fossil on private
land,
uh, you can legally sell it
uh, as long as you have the permission
of all parties, the landowner, the
dinosaur hunter, etc.
Um,
in other countries, it's more shady. Uh,
they might have, uh, exceptions. You
might be able to get export permits,
but,
uh, you know, I'd not recommend anybody
to kind of get involved or kind of do
that. I'd suggest focus on American
dinosaur fossils.
>> Okay. Uh so to talk you through the
process or how it works with us, um
as a gallery, we're a retail gallery, we
will work with landowners and uh
dinosaur explorers
uh who will uh
kind of go out uh you know, in Wyoming
or where in Montana or you know, South
Dakota or wherever it that may be, uh
look for dinosaur fossils
uh and
call us or email us when they have kind
of images of uh uh bones as soon as
they're discovered.
Um and
the way it works is in some cases
uh it's the landowner who is entering
into uh agreements with a dinosaur
hunter, for example, to split profit.
>> Right. In some cases, it's uh kind of
commercial dinosaur dealers who will
acquire ranches or uh or land uh hoping
to kind of uh for the purpose of finding
dinosaur fossils on that uh
on that property. Um and least often uh
is you might buy something from a
private collector uh who bought it
decades ago
uh on the market himself. We very rarely
do that because
um the rules relating to provenance have
changed so drastically that um it's
unlikely that somebody who offered a
dinosaur for sale a long period of time
uh you know, decades ago will have all
of the paperwork we would want to see
today to feel comfortable with being
able to offer it to privates or to a
museums. Well, why don't you talk to us
what are the rules of provenance?
As I said, the rules have have been
developing and different dealers will
kind of require different amounts of due
diligence, but uh obviously the more
certainty you have that you know, you
know exactly where and when and by whom
uh with what permissions a dinosaur
fossil is discovered, the more
confidence you have as a buyer. So, for
example, we will insist on uh GPS
coordinates. We'll need to see land
deeds showing that
whoever owns it proves their legal
title, GPS coordinates as it's
discovered. We'll need to have copies of
the sale arrangements between the
dinosaur hunter and the landowner.
We'll need to see ideally when it's an
important dinosaur fossil, I like to see
videos kind of as the piece in situ, you
know, in real time is being discovered
so I know that bones aren't being added.
Um you know, we'll want to have kind of
cooperating statements from everyone on
the site
explaining what's been found. We'll want
to send experts to the location or visit
ourselves to kind of verify everything
as it's being you know, excavated. So
all of that is kind of helps to build a
picture of where you have complete
certainty over when, where, how
and you know, in whose property the
piece the in the fossil was discovered.
If you if you kind of uh rewind 15-20
years ago,
dinosaur fossils may have been
exchanging hands where you might just
have a signed statement from someone
saying I found this on my property at
you know, 15 Oak Hill Road or whatever.
But you know, as the numbers have
increased and also kind of just
a bit of background, we're a we're an
ancient art or antiquities gallery and
we deal in Islamic art. And we entered
the dinosaur fossil market effectively
trying to
use the you know, the due diligence
rules in those categories and apply them
to the dinosaur fossil market. So
my original background is in my kind of
my family's background are antiquities
dealers where we when we buy an artwork
or a Roman marble, we need to be clear
about its provenance, you know, where
how did it enter the market? What proof
is there it legally left its country of
origin?
And unless we're able to show that
conclusively with proof, uh, then a a or
a museum doesn't really have the
ultimate security uh, that the piece is
legally on the market. So, we developed
our own internal ways of kind of really
a kind of checklist for a um, for a
specimen to make us feel comfortable
that uh, it's legal and it's uh, on the
sale on the market uh,
legally with no kind of issues relating
to its title. Um, does that kind of
Yeah.
>> build a picture of what you need uh,
uh, to buy a dinosaur fossil.
>> Do you do third-party testing at all?
Like thermoluminescence testing for age
verification and things like that? Or do
you not really need it once you have all
the provenance evidence to back it up?
Case dependent, but what we what we
really want to do is we we try wherever
possible to arrange uh, independent
third-party consultants or
paleontologists or specialists to look
at the specimen before we offer it for
sale. And ideally a paleontologist who
specializes in that particular species.
So, for example, uh, we recently sold a
a Jurassic skeleton which was 150
million years old and we kind of reached
out to uh,
the best person in that category and
said, "Could you just review the images?
This What does this look like to you?"
Um, and what we also do is arrange uh,
conservators to kind of well, from the
art background to come and check uh,
that the bones that we are assembling
are reflected accurately on a bone map.
And that's something else that I think
we'll probably get into is, you know,
how do you know what you're buying? Uh,
because dinosaur fossils aren't
discovered completely intact. Virtually
never discovered completely intact. They
are assembled from what is discovered
and then that's mixed in with uh, resin
parts or 3D printed uh, bones to
complete the specimen um,
etc. And so,
anybody buying a dinosaur fossil needs
to know what they're buying. And uh,
that's something, you know, again, the
market is developing over the past 15-20
years uh, because it used to be that uh,
well, actually, it still is today, that
if you walk into a fossil shop uh, and
you say, "Well, how much of what I'm
buying is real bone and how much of it
is fake bone?" Uh, they'll show you a
uh, uh, a kind of a color book, a
drawing of all the bones, and if an
element of that bone is present, they'll
say, "Oh, yeah, we have, you know, we
have the fibula, we have the vertebrae,
we have whatever it is, we have this
claw." Uh,
and actually, uh, it could be very
misleading because you might actually
have 5% of that particular bone. And as
a result, a item that looks very
complete on a bone map is actually
incredibly incomplete. So, um,
not only do we we kind of insist on
having paleontologist specialists check
that, you know, this is the specimen
we're describing, it's being attributed
correctly, but also we'll have
conservators actually draw up a uh, a
bone map which as a gallery we've
designed to show what percentage of each
bone is there.
Uh, and that's one of the kind of issues
with the dinosaur fossil market is that,
you know, somebody could very easily
snap a bone in half and kind of double
its quote-unquote completeness in that
bone map uh,
uh, um, kind of process. And so, when we
when you asked your first question was,
you know, how does this uh, compare or
contrast with other areas of the art
market? There isn't the same depth of
kind of art consultants advisory firms
uh, that uh, all kind of uh, you know,
etc. that are increasing the pressure on
vendors to try to keep all kind of, for
example, art fairs. You know, if you are
a art gallery and you want to exhibit at
the best art fairs in the world, there
are certain um, kind of uh,
uh, vetting requirements you need to
fulfill. And so, the dinosaur market
doesn't have that same level of scrutiny
for now. Uh, but uh, as the numbers are,
uh, increasing and there are kind of
way more private collectors interested
in, uh, acquiring and building private
collections of dinosaur fossils and also
new museums being formed around the
world, uh,
the market as a result is kind of
developing new systems to be more
transparent and also to to better
present completeness. Already very
fascinating. Just real quick question on
North American dinosaurs, you mentioned
that a lot of the excavation or hunting
work happens in Wyoming, North Dakota,
etc. Is that because geographically we
have reason to believe that there was a
high density of fossils there or is it
because there's a lot of land, like if
there's a dinosaur under New York City,
no one's looking for it. You can't dig
it up. Is it just because
there's a lot of land there that is
diggable that's not being used for
anything else?
I think it's one of the above. It's also
to do with the way that the earth, um,
kind of the, you know,
there has to there will, ideally there
are, uh, climates that make it easier to
dig in. Like for example, you can't dig
when it's when it's snowing. You get
when it's too hot, it becomes quite, uh,
difficult also and you need that kind of
churn of weather, uh, that kind of mixes
up the earth and makes it easier. So,
for it's it's all of the above, um,
but, uh, yeah, effectively.
So, the other thing I'm very curious
about in all of this is the pricing of
fossils because as you say, in many ways
it's a new market for some very, very
old things. But, if someone discovers,
uh, a skeleton and I take your point
that you rarely discover a full
skeleton, but let's say you discover
something that's kind of unusual in that
world, how do you even go about
benchmarking it to an actual price that
you can sell it for? It's a great
question. So,
uh,
you know, when I'm, uh
when my in the uh
with my dad, for example, when we're
discussing antiquities or Islamic art
and we buy we acquire a new piece, we'll
immediately sit down and my dad will
say, "This is exactly like the one that
appeared in '98 at auction. This is
exactly like the one that appears in
this catalog in '72." And I saw one in
Paris, you know, and that doesn't exist.
And And the issue with the dinosaur
fossil market is that the price is and
I'll I'll give you kind of concrete
examples is so all over the place
because uh take for instance uh which
was kind of a a watershed moment in the
dinosaur fossil market, which was the
sale of Stan. It was a
uh super complete uh high-profile,
widely published, iconic T-Rex skeleton
acquired by the um
Abu Dhabi Natural History Museum in 2020
or 2021 at Christie's. That made $31
million. Uh uh the record for a
dinosaur at auction prior to that was $8
million uh Wow. in the early 2000s,
which was Sue, which was acquired um by
a consortium of companies and is now um
on on permanent display in Chicago. Uh
so and probably after Sue, there was
very few things that actually made $8
million
up until Stan. Um and after Stan, the
the the prices exploded uh and
Christie's and Sotheby's started uh kind
of uh recurringly uh consigning major
dinosaur fossils for sale. Uh and
actually, there was no logic to why they
were so cheap um prior to that sale. You
know, a lot of it was to do with the
lack of visibility that people didn't
know you could uh acquire dinosaur
fossils. And
what happened with our gallery
specifically was we were the first
commercial art gallery to actually start
exhibiting dinosaur fossils as an art
form at an art fair. So, we uh kind of
you know,
acquired our dinosaur fossils. We
applied art market uh diligence uh to
the acquisition uh art market kind of
condition reporting to the condition and
the preservation created bespoke art
really you know
art market minimalist stands for the
pieces and then showed them at art fairs
and a lot of people would come up to us
and say I did not know you could buy a
T-Rex. I did not know you could buy a
you know
Triceratops skull and what the auction
houses did was kind of pump these items
into
into the news and into
auctions and then a whole generation of
you know tech bros and private
collectors kind of descended on the
market
with advisors and kind of that
contributed to the explosion in prices.
So to give you an example
specifically you know
there was a complete Triceratops
skeleton that skeleton that sold around
2022 2023 don't quote me on the exact
date but Big John in Paris which made
kind of circa 8 million
dollars. The prior record for a
Triceratops skeleton was I mean I don't
know of any that made more than a
million at public auction. I know that
Christie's had one that went unsold for
half a million dollars
you know
10 plus years in earlier. So the price
jumps have been extraordinary
you know and there are many other
examples like that where
you know since Stan we've had you know
Hector we had a raptor that made kind of
12 13 million pounds we've had you know
the Spinosaurus the apex which was
bought by Ken Griffin made 45 million we
had a specimen a specimen last the last
Sotheby's specimen made 37 million and
these are all numbers which are unheard
of
in the dinosaur fossil market.
So
and the issue is that
a lot of these specimens are being
either consigned by kind of primary
dinosaur hunters or
landowners to auction. And then once
they've kind of
made this sale, it's very difficult for
them to then sell something at the prior
prices,
you know, 5-10 years prior.
So, yeah, that's kind of gives you a bit
of context about the complete change in
pricing structure in this industry. So,
I take it that finding a complete
skeleton is extremely rare.
Is there a lot of transaction activity
and just like you [snorts] know, here's
a femur, here's a foot, here's a here's
a nose. Like is that the more It sounds
so unimpressive. I'd be so excited about
a dinosaur femur.
>> sure, I would, too. [laughter] But like
are there a lot of transaction or do you
like let's say you have part of a skull?
Like do you wait and say maybe we can
find some more and like build something.
And also is there like is it legitimate
in your space to create an assemblage of
like we have a complete X, but it's from
five different dinosaurs, but it is all
dinosaur bones, so we put them together.
Like are is there anything going on like
that? So, as a gallery, our business
model is to deal in very few, but you
know, the very best and not to sell
composites
and to sell fragments, but only when
they're kind of I think aesthetic or
beautiful or kind of historically
interesting.
But there are loads of sellers for for
the cheaper part of cheaper kind of
smaller bones and that's a huge market.
You know, you can go to mineral shows
and you can buy,
you know,
teeth in the hundreds of dollars or
you know, also
you can also buy very much cheaper if
you buy non-American dinosaur fossils.
And there are there are dealers that
will sell composites and everybody will
take a kind of commercial decision on
whether to assemble something or sell it
as a fragment. I prefer where possible
to kind of not over restore um so that
you don't look at something and say, "I
have a
you know, something which in bone mass
or sorry, in in in mass is kind of 20%
original, 80% resin." Um I'd rather show
a fragment. Mhm. But yeah, look, I I
I It's from I can tell you I personally
have uh you know, I have a Triceratops
horn at home.
Uh I have a couple of T-Rex teeth
uh at home. So
>> at your website.
>> There's a T-Rex or possibly Gor-
Gorgosaurus, I never heard of that
dinosaur, tooth for sale for
8,500 lb. This seems affordable. Yeah.
What's the catch? Well, you can get it
as well. It's a nice big tooth. It looks
nice. Maybe I'll get it.
>> [laughter]
>> Well Yeah, well, we're not sure in in
that one if which of the two it is. So
we we kind of
want to be you know, cautious.
So, just to Joe's question, could I make
could I make a living basically being a
dinosaur fossil markup as I sort of
collect various bones and try to
create a fully formed skeleton?
You could uh
yes and no [snorts] because
um
this is the thing about the market
maturing is that strictly speaking, you
know, private collectors should be
advised uh um and they should be kind of
not acquiring things unless they know
for certain that they've been assembled
correctly, they are original to the
piece and uh you know, you aren't taking
composites. Uh but in recent years
because the market has
uh kind of had so much uh demand, there
are people who have acquired pieces that
maybe should not have done or paid
prices they shouldn't have done. But
that's something I expect to decrease
with time because of the increased
scrutiny that is you know, should be
coming into these
uh fossils as a result of kind of the
higher numbers. Uh
but
uh
yeah, and then the other thing to say is
that it's very competitive. Like you if
you want to buy a great dinosaur fossil
today, you can't just, you know, go down
a promenade of galleries and you know,
you can walk in and say, "Oh, I'd like
to buy a T-Rex. Um, could you show me
what's a, you know, behind the curtain?"
Uh, that doesn't exist. I mean, if you
if you want to buy an amazing dinosaur
fossil, um,
you know, you you're looking at having
to kind of pre-buy it, pre-acquire it
prior to prepping. So, what we do with
clients for example is
uh, a client recently I sold an amazing
complete skeleton. Uh, it's either a
Marshosaurus or it's a completely
unknown new species uh, to a private
collector who wanted to have it go on
public display.
Um, so it's being loaned to a uh, the
Culture Trust Museum in the UK.
Um, and it's kind of something that this
private collector wants to be studied
and he wants it to be kind of made
available to science and I don't know if
his plan at some point will be to donate
it or to what his plan is is but he's a
very kind of philanthropic person.
Um,
but in that scenario what we had to do
was
uh, I met the client years ago. We
agreed on the strategy which was to buy
an amazing complete skeleton.
Uh, and uh, then I consistently sent the
client kind of propositions of uh,
specimens as they were being discovered
and I said, "Listen,
uh, this has just been found. This is
what's been found so far. Um, this is
how much the price is to the landowner.
This is how much I I I envision it will
cost to prep. You need to pre-buy this
if you want the specimen because by the
time this is
uh, acquired and prepped and complete, I
mean, you're we're competing against the
kind of sovereign wealth fund or kind of
petrodollar
uh, states. Uh, you know, the tech, you
know, the other kind of
uh, you know, the it's just be much more
difficult. Sotheby's, Christie's, we'll
never be able to get a price and it
might not be able to acquire it.
Um, so that's what people have to do uh,
to buy really great dinosaur fossils
usually.
It's unusual for someone to be able to
kind of walk in and buy something
amazing at a kind of reasonable price.
Actually, that reminds me, but who's the
archetypal buyer for these things? And
has that shifted over time as the market
becomes more prominent, I guess?
It has. So,
as you could probably guess, it's very
tech science heavy. So, we have clients
of all ages.
You know,
but what's interesting is the dinosaur
fossil clients are much younger
than kind of the
antiquities or Islamic art clients in
general. It's a younger demographic and
also you know, really skewed towards
tech and science. It's a lot of people
that grew up with Jurassic Park that
find it amazing.
But I would also add that our gallery is
very museum-centric. So, we try where
possible to work with museums. So, often
for example,
where we can and we always have, we give
museums first rights on whatever we
find.
We consult museum scholars and curators
and also we've had
where [snorts] possible actually what we
are doing in the dinosaur space is we
are introducing private collectors to
museums and we are helping museums
acquire specimens
by kind of you know, well,
finding the private donors to acquire
the specimens for the museums. And we
had a Yeah. one of the ones cuz I know
that you're going to you guys touch on
science and
whether or not the the private market
kind of
takes away from
science and research. So, just to kind
of jump into that question.
>> It's exactly where I was going to go
next. So, yeah.
Yeah, cuz it's it's it's I imagined. So,
obviously
it's very sad in some instances where as
a result of the private trade specimens
are not available to museums or they
might be lost to science, but as a as a
kind of commercial dealer, I do believe
that uh
on the balance,
uh
the public is better off for the private
because of the private trade as a result
of kind of uh so many dinosaurs would
not ordinarily be discovered if it were
not for the private trade. And
we have we try where possible, and of
course no one is perfect, we have
uh managed to make privately discovered
dinosaur fossils uh uh
to be able to find their way to museums
as a result of private buyers. So,
uh last year we had a high-profile sale
of a completely new species which we
acquired, we showed to the Natural
History Museum in the UK. They loved the
specimen.
Uh they they really wanted it. They said
this would be a transformative piece for
their collection. And then we placed it
on uh kind of unconditional reserve for
them and went out and tried to find a
private buyer. And 6 to 9 later we found
a private collector who would who agreed
to acquire it for the museum and also
make funds available for research. So,
that's an instance where because of the
private trade, um we've been able to do
something good for kind of the public
and for the museums uh that we work
with. That makes a ton of sense, of
course. The fact that if there's a lot
of money in the space, then you elicit
more discovery and then it's good for
science, etc. Those agreements where
it's like, "Okay, I buy a dinosaur and
then I put it in a museum." Is there a
time component? Can I ever take it back
eventually? Like, "Okay, I agree to
place it for 10 years or 2 years or
something." Or am I expected to sort of
permanently
give it to the museum to hold?
It's case-dependent. So, there are a lot
of museums that will will shy away or
completely forbid
uh interaction with the private market.
Okay. Um and then there are some which
are much more willing or excited to do
so.
Um, and you know, I understand why uh uh
um
uh
kind of I understand the sensitivities
around it. Um,
but it's each museum is different. Uh,
you know, there are many that don't will
just not accept the loan full stop.
Um,
but you have to kind of really
try to build trust and you know, for
example, uh be very upfront with the
museum. I'm I'm arranging this loan uh
not because I want to increase the value
of the specimen so it can be sold at
auction in 3 years' time.
Uh, and this is how I will make you feel
comfortable. This is the private buyer.
His plan is genuinely to donate it. Um,
and it's quite a it's quite an
interesting uh uh
opportunity really because
as we enter the dinosaur fossil space,
you know, uh we realize that you know,
when you visit an art museum, you look
on the walls and you see kind of lines
of art patrons. Um, and when you visit
the natural history museums, that
doesn't really exist because there isn't
that same ecosystem for kind of you
know, patron groups of friends or
collectors and and that because it's
just a it's a it's a recently developing
market. So, hopefully and of course, you
know,
like with every market, there's the
benefits and the disadvantages, that the
market will kind of cultivate the next
generation of patrons that will interact
with museums. I mean,
I don't know what Ken Griffin's plan is
for Apex, but you know, he's as as soon
as he acquires he acquired it, it's on
it's on
public display in New York and you know,
I think everyone's kind of enjoying
looking at it and visiting the museum. I
would imagine that maybe you know, that
he's thinking in his mind that he's
going to donate it or gift it at some
point.
Would you expect there to be more
speculative interest in the market as it
develops? Because that's something we're
very used to seeing in the art market,
right? Someone buys a painting and
thinks of it as an investment, not just
something nice to hang on their wall.
Are we going to start to see the same
thing with dinosaur bones?
I think we have seen that and I think I
would recommend people I
you know, people often come to us and
say okay, would you recommend and I have
it with friends friend you know, what
when I meet my school friends they
always say come on sell find me a bone
and I always say I
>> [laughter]
>> it's kind of consistent it's a you know,
my best friends always say I can't
believe you've not found me a
Triceratops skull
and I always say you you you you can't
you can't buy as an investor.
You have to buy because you love you
love it. You you you're kind of inspired
by the history by the you know, it's
it's it is it's all inspiring to set
stand in front of a kind of 66 million
years old creature that roamed the earth
and
it's it's jaw-dropping.
But I don't I don't believe in buying
for speculative reasons because there
are so many unknowns.
You know, it might be that America the
US decides to kind of shut the private
trade down and suddenly
you know, you may be one of the few
people in the world with a Triceratops
skull and in good condition and suddenly
it's worth a hundred times what you paid
for it. It may be that actually
you know,
property prices go up and no one has the
space for a dinosaur fossil in their
home anymore. I mean there's so many
variables
but there has been a lot of speculative
buying and you do see that with
kind of
pieces that have been acquired at
auction and then six months later one
year later they're offered for sale
again privately as soon as it as soon as
the auction is finished and that's not
how the behavior of kind of a genuine
collector who wants to acquire and live
with something for decades. So I really
don't enjoy and I you know, working with
people who have that that is their plan.
You have to just trust that you know,
you do your research and your due
diligence and you acquire at the fair
market value.
Um especially in this space, you it's
unreasonable and it should be kind of
uh a massive red flag for someone to
sell you something which is kind of
under the prices of the current market
because it's so competitive. All you can
do is kind of acquire at a fair value
with an honest description of what
you're buying with an understanding of
exactly how good it is, how complete it
is, um
and we can go into, for example, what
what to look for when acquiring a
dinosaur fossil. Like, why what gives it
value? Great. Tell us. And that's Okay,
so um Wait, can I ask a question before
you go into that more generally? But do
people
do do bones from carnivores seem to have
more value than bones from herbivores?
Yes. Uh so, people come to us and say,
"I want teeth. I want something scary. I
want something that I can put in my
home. You come around the corner and it
gives you the fright of your life."
Uh and uh so, uh generally speaking, uh
carnivorous animals which are kind of
meat-eater skeletons,
uh T-Rex, uh Gorgosaurus, uh uh you
know, Allosaurus,
uh juvenile T-Rex, juvenile Allosaurus,
etc., uh they're way more sought after.
They're very competitive. I mean,
you know, if I found a T-Rex skull in
great condition with all the bells and
whistles, there's a queue of five, six
people kind of waiting for it, ready to
acquire it from an email photo, uh
uh you know, uh to send money in
advance, uh waiting for it to come.
Um
herbivores aren't as popular, but then
again, uh the iconic herbivores like a
Triceratops skull is very popular.
Um
uh
What I hope to happen, and this comes to
value and where we distinguish ourselves
from other dinosaur dealers, is that uh
I would hope that people kind of
increasingly look at actually what
they're buying, you know, not just the
brand. Am I buying a T-Rex? Am I buying
a Triceratops? No.
Am I buying something that is colored in
on a document, a bone map, and described
as being very complete?
That's not how I would suggest anybody
to deal in dinosaur fossils. You need to
understand
what is the kind of
anticipated or the usual condition of
that particular type of specimen. So,
some specimens are usually discovered
much more complete than others. So, you
may buy, for example,
a salt and dinosaur skeleton, which is a
small Jurassic skeleton about a meter
and a half,
150 million years old.
They're usually discovered very
incomplete because they're very They're
small, the bones are brittle.
There are very few skulls that have ever
been found. If you have a Nanosaurus
skeleton that might have kind of 50% of
the bones represented and some of the
kind of the feet, the claws, or the
you know, there, then that's amazing.
But, 50% of a a larger herbivore with
kind of thick, durable bones like a
Triceratops is actually not as
interesting or as exciting. And also, it
doesn't matter how many bones are there,
but actually what are the key bones? You
know, what are you looking for in value
or in kind of historical interest? So,
T-Rex skull.
Let's say
you buy a T-Rex skull, but all the teeth
are not original.
You know, that's a pretty
crazy thing to do. You know, it's
or a Triceratops skull, which is iconic
because of its, you know, it's the
three-horned kind of dinosaur. It's got
these amazing horns that are, you know,
descend out of it ascend out of its
skull.
You It doesn't matter how many parts or
how much of the frill you have or how
much of the kind of lower jaw you have.
What you want is you want the You need
those horns to be there.
And so, what I think will happen over
time is that holistically people will
look at dinosaur fossils and say, "I
don't care. It's not about It is the
branding is important, but it's more
about, you know, what am I buying
exactly?
You know, forgetting the how the
industry used to work in the past and
actually kind of taking a much more
measured, slower,
kind of deeper,
kind of investigatory kind of analysis
as to what's complete and what's not
complete, what's interesting and what's
not complete. Sorry that I give you very
long answers to you.
>> No, no, that's great. There's so much
information that it's totally fine. I
actually want to go back to something
you said because when you think about
market structure, you did say one thing
that sort of feels familiar, perhaps,
which is that you could get a better
shot at acquiring something at a good
price if you buy it a little bit earlier
in the process. That by the time the
dinosaur has been completely excavated
and documented and assembled, etc., it's
going to go to some, you know, rich
collector in the Gulf or something like
that. Talk to us a little bit more some
of these
collectors or people who are waiting for
that T-Rex skull or whatever. How early
can they, if they're so inclined, get in
on the process? Can they front money
towards a
paleontologist who has a good reason to
think there might be something there?
Can they, like, you know, can they buy a
stake of an excavation project, period?
Like, for the active collector
>> Venture capital for Velociraptors.
>> and some sort,
like, buy a stake in the expedition.
Yes, they do. I don't think a private
collector should do that.
I guess if you can and you have the
money and it's fun and it's kind of
exciting, fair enough. But but I don't
recommend someone to do it that way.
>> I think
uh
very high risk. Um you know,
you may end up acquiring or finding a
dinosaur skeleton that you actually
don't have the space for or you don't
want or is not what you ideally wanted.
Um,
you know, very hard to manage.
You know, if you're if you're sitting in
New York or you're sitting in London,
you need to trust that
the team that you are working with. I
mean, when they find a bone, how do you
know they're not putting it in their
pocket?
You know, how how do you know your
I mean, we're talking about really
remote places.
Where you you have no idea. You know, I
had a you know, there are also all types
of things like there are situations
where
you know, you you acquire something and
the seller holds back a couple of bones
and then 6 months later you get a phone
call saying, "By the way,
you know, I I did find a couple other
bones that you would really want to buy
now." Now again, I'm going to extort you
for the
Yeah, that's happened few too many times
to me. So so you you need to kind of uh
uh
yeah, I think I've
as a dealer, I feel like I've aged
disproportionately to my age. But but
you you need to kind of work with a
small number of people you trust
and try wherever possible because life
is short to to kind of delegate the
headache and the stress
and the risk in my opinion.
Is anyone working on bringing dinosaurs
back to life?
Hey, this would be the ultimate risk for
the asset class, right? Now we have new
supplies of dinosaur bones. Well, I
mean, I know that's sort of fantastical,
right? Because of Jurassic Park and oh,
maybe we're going to find a little bit
of DNA and some amber somewhere. But
it's not like like wasn't there
something they brought a wolf there's
some there was some cover of a magazine
recently and they said, "Oh, this wolf
that had gone extinct, we actually like
brought it back somehow." Isn't there
some work being done on science and
reviving extinct species?
I think there are
there are there are the obvious ethical
issues of it. I mean, you know, when you
once you open Pandora's Box and you
start kind of bringing back to life,
uh you know, where does it end? Uh but I
I I think there's people are always
talking about it. I even think Elon Musk
did a
uh did a post recently about Jurassic
Park. I mean, so
uh
I'm sure it will happen in our lifetime.
Whether it will be good or not, I don't
know.
You're sure it will happen in our
lifetime?
I I definitely. I Don't you think with
the kind of advent of AI and uh
Yeah. Aren't we going to be surrounded
by dinosaurs in 20 years' time? The
Bloomberg office headquarters is going
to have triceratops roaming it.
Well, this is a I mean, this is a this
is a big call. Yeah, this is a big call.
>> [laughter]
>> I wasn't expecting Particularly from an
antiquities dealer. Particularly from
someone who's a like, "Oh, yeah, this is
definitely coming. The Jurassic Park is
coming."
>> joking. I'm just joking. I No, no. You
don't want to see it. If I had to bet a
bit
I'd bet they're not going to they're not
going to reappear, but you know, I'm
certain they wouldn't I'm just joking.
>> They would not be as plentiful as to be
in the Bloomberg office in our lifetime.
[laughter] I'm sure of that, at least.
One one last question, actually. Kids,
when when uh you know, when you ask a
little kid what they want to be,
uh they either want to be like, you
know, a popular thing to be a
paleontologist. And I can't imagine, by
and large, there's a lot of paleontology
jobs. But given the trends, would you
say this is becoming a more plausible
career option if there's more money in
the space and then more economic reason
to find dinosaurs, could this be that
maybe more kids get to live out their
dreams of being a paleontologist? 100%.
I If you imagine, a lot of these private
collectors will set up private museums.
And I would go one step further. You
know, that's exactly that underscores
the interest in dinosaur fossils because
And this is why we kind of pivoted to
this um this market because if you type
into Google Modigliani or Jeff Koons and
you look at the search results, the
number of people who search have
searched for Jeff Koons or whatever.
It's totally eclipsed by the searches
for a triceratops or a T-Rex. There's
enormous universal interest in these
dinosaurs. And actually, whatever we do
in art fair, we're kind of inundated by
children
and and by people of all ages who come
up to us and say, "Isn't that 50
million? Isn't that 100 million?" I say,
"No, it's it's actually half a million
or or no, it's it's 55,000 pounds or
it's 8 and 1/2 7,000 for a fossil." But
you know, but but um
that's the that's that explains why
dinosaurs have kind of exploded in price
because
people, especially children, love them.
And they are much more universally kind
of admired than a lot of the modern
masters or kind of art market categories
that will fall out of favor every 5 or
10 years.
So, yeah, definitely.
Um
Yeah, I agree with you kind of your call
on that.
>> that maybe they should uh they should go
into that.
Sal, thank you so much for coming on Odd
Lots. That was a really fun conversation
and a
nice distraction from some of the the
other markets and geopolitics episodes
that we've been doing.
>> That's right. That was great. Thank you
so much.
Pleasure to spend time with you both and
hope you have a lovely day. And thank
you for your time.
Joe, that was a really fun conversation.
There is something to that final point
from Sal, this idea that there is a
universality of interest in dinosaurs,
right? It feels like everyone
if if you have any sort of humanity in
you has gone through a dinosaur stage
when you were a kid. Absolutely. No, and
you know, this idea that art will go in
and out of style and probably
dinosaurs are forever. And so probably
from the perspective of a collector or a
museum and you want to have a lot of
interest, dinosaurs are the way to go.
And then just this idea that I do
imagine that there is an you know, I
talked about this, a little bit of
anxiety about there being private trade
and ownership of them. But, if the plus
side is that it makes excavation more
economically viable, and if in many of
these instances the dinosaurs do end up
in museums for scientists to study
regardless,
it sounds like a win-win for the most
part. It sounds pretty good. I think
there are still some environmental
issues. We probably should have talked
about this a little bit, but there are
still some environmental concerns about
large-scale digs. I know the mammoth
bone industry or mammoth tusk tusk can't
talk industry in Russia has been
something of an issue, so that could be
also something to think about.
>> But, I do think like crowding in that
private capital, I mean, clearly has led
to some interesting discoveries already,
which Sal was talking about, this idea
that they they discovered a new species.
By the way,
I want to go back to
the beginning of this conversation. So,
Sal mentioned a Nanosaurus skeleton.
Here is a Nanosaurus.
What does that look like to you?
It is a kind of looks like a chicken. A
little bit. Yeah. I mean, it is
>> exactly like a pheasant.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> A Nanosaurus looks like a pheasant.
>> This is the same. This is the same
thing. Okay, great.
>> You're right.
>> Capitulation.
>> right. A Nanosaurus is great. This is a
a good example of a I wouldn't have made
that, but yes, it has those little arms.
>> By the way, one other thing, um you were
talking about the gold plated dinosaur
skeleton in Miami. Our producer, Carmen,
points out that it is not in fact a
dinosaur skeleton, it's a woolly mammoth
skeleton. So, your kids have more
ammunition now to make fun of you for
misidentifying dinosaurs. [laughter]
You know, the thing is I really thought
that was I didn't know So, what's a
woolly mammoth? That's not a dinosaur?
That's just like another animal?
>> hairy elephant, a hairy prehistoric
elephant that died. So,
but they were also prehistoric. I think
so, yeah.
Right, that makes sense. God, I feel
like we're going to get emails from a
million, maybe not a million, a few
paleontologists out there complaining
about some of our classifications. So, I
apologize in advance if I got that
wrong. I really am very ignorant about
this. If it looks like an old animal, I
just assume it's a dinosaur. That's my
That's my definition of a dinosaur. A
prehistoric mammal, I think, is is an
accurate way of describing woolly
mammoths.
It Also, it Look at a pterodactyl.
That's a dinosaur. I'm sorry.
Well, I So, I looked this up after you
mentioned that cuz I was very surprised.
I did not know this. It's from a
category
that is very closely related to
dinosaurs. So, it's the way of people
make distinctions between like silesaurs
and dinosaurs. I don't really understand
them, all all those distinctions, but
apparently, you know, scientists who are
experts in this have agreed.
>> that And it's from the Jurassic period.
Okay, whatever. Late It's from the late
Jurassic. It's a dinosaur. I have
something embarrassing to admit, which
is for the longest time I kept saying
pterodactyl instead of pterodactyl. So,
yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
Let's leave it there. All right. This
has been another episode of the
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at the Stalwart.
Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez
at Carmen Armandas at Dash But and
Kilburgs at Kilburgs. And for more Odd
Lots content, you can check out our
daily newsletter. You'll find that at
bloomberg.com/oddlots.
And you can chat about all of these
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.
Thanks for watching.